This is a very brief introduction to the
Git Version Control System.
So Version Control is a system that
records
all the changes that you've made to a
file or a set o files over time so that
you can, recall specific versions later.
It's one of the most commonly used tools
for data scientists because,
often you'll be working on a set of
scripts or a set of
programs, and you'll make changes to them
and over time, some of
those changes will be good, and some of
those changes will be bad.
And maybe other people will be working at
the same time on a similar set of
functions that you want to be able to keep
track of everything that's being done to
those files.
So, many of the ways, the way that many of
us work with
files, whether we create something, we
save it, we change it and we save
it again, and then when you, what happens
is you'll lose those intermediate files,
the files that you saved in between the
final version and the first version.
And so, Version Control means we're just
going to try
and save or manage all of those
intermediate files.
And it's really important when you're sort
of collaborating
with others because, they might be using
as, a different
intermediate file and you might want to
know how to
coordinate what happened when you get to
the final version.
So Git is a free and open source version
of of a version control system.
It's distributed so it can handle
everything from
small to very large projects with speed
and efficiency.
It's one of the most commonly used sort of
version control systems right now.
It's created by the same people who
developed Linux.
It's definitely the most popular version
control today compared
to all the other version control systems
like SVN.
Everything is stored in local
repositories,
or on your computer, and they're called
repos and then you do most of the
operations from the command line.
And so this is the link I've given you
here is a, sort
of a short history of how Git was
developed, and how to get started.
So, the first thing that you need to do is
go and get, download Git.
So I've given you the website that you can
see right here.
So, if you go to that website and download
the appropriate version of
the software for your operating system,
that would be the right place to start.
The next thing that you do is, once it's
done downloading, you open it up and you
begin
the installation process, so there'll be
an install wizard
that will take you through the steps of
installing Git.
Unless you really know what you're doing,
you should probably just go
with all the default options at each step
of the installation process.
Once the installation is finished, you
might want to hit
the Finish button, although you may
want to check uncheck
the box next to review the release notes
because
you probably won't be interested in that
at this point.
So the first thing that you want to do is
open up a program
called Git Bash which is the command line
enr, environment for interacting with Git.
This is particularly true if you're on
Windows users.
It should be loca, located in to the
directory in which Git was
installed or for Windows users, it will be
in the Start menu now.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So, once you have Git Bash open you'll see
a short welcome message followed
by the name of your computer and a dollar
sign on the next line.
And so the dollar sign means that it's
again, the prompt like you've seen in
the sort of command line interface lecture
and so, it's your turn to type a command.
And so, each commit to a Git repository
will
be tagged with the username of the person
the commit.
So what you need to do to sort of get
things
set up is, you need to enter your username
and your e-mail.
So you type these commands where you type
Git config dash global username.
And here you want to type in your username
that you're going to be using.
And then, you do the same thing only user
dot email.
And here, you're going to type in the
email
that you're going to be using with GitHub.
You only have to do this once when the
system opens
up, but you can always change it down the
road if
you want to use the same commands, if you
want to change say
your user name or the email that's
associated with the Git account.
Now type the following to confirm your
changes.
So, what you do is you just type git
config
dot dash dash list, like I see, like you
see here.
And, so, you should be able to see your
username and your email and all of that.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So right now we're actually going to
actually just exit Git Bash.
And so so you can do that with this
command, just type exit and hit return.
So now that Git is setup on your computer
,we're going to do, do some lectures
on how do you use GitHub, which is a web
development tool for dealing with GitHub.
It's dealing with Git, it's widely, widely
used
among scientists and does lots of neat
stuff.
And so, once that's up and running we'll
show you how to do some
of the most important things that you need
to do with the Version Control System.